---
layout: post
title:  "Dark time we live in"
startdate: 2020-11-03 20:00:00 +1100
date:   2020-11-04 03:03:00 +1100
categories: anh thoughts
author: Anh
---
It's been a wild year. Trust me, I did not intend for this blog to have like, 2 entries per year, but here we are, so I best explain what happened. I moved to Melbourne last March for study purposes. The preparation took some time, and then came the study, the books, the games and whatnot. I started this while working - at the time there were a lot of free time, few responsibilities and also few exciting things that scream for attention. Studying is a whole new beast - and studying online is absolutely, completely, decidedly terrible. It is actually quite upsetting that my last year of schooling turned out to be staying home and staring at the screen for hours - there is something in the body language, the physical presence of the speaker and the atmostphere in a lecture hall that simply cannot be replicated online. Anyway, back to the topic of writing, even when I'm not watching lectures or scrambling to finish assignments, I'd be too strained to do anything creatively and so often just decide to play games or read something instead. 

Speaking of reading, I spent winter break devouring The Witcher series and it was extraordinary - in fact better than any other book series I've read, despite being translated from Polish. It was too good to let go and also left a lingering bittersweet aftertaste that I can't quite shake off, and so playing Gwent (a card game based on The Witcher characters and settings) has been the only way to scratch that itch. The game is great, too - its artwork is just phenomenal.

Anyway, now that summer is coming soon and we've finished the last episode of The Big Bang Theory, this blog will probably get a little more attention from time to time. No promises, though - let's just hope I will not come across another source of distraction too soon!