---
layout: post
title:  "Kingdom: a short experience that spans years"
startdate: 2020-01-25 23:00:00 +0700
date:   2020-01-26 01:13:00 +0700
categories: anh games
author: Anh
---
I first played Kingdom a long time ago, when I was still a finalist in England - it was one of those great finds that I accidentally stumble upon while browsing Steam. I was obviously into the pixel-arts and the medieval theme, but the devs also promised a huge & free-of-charge upcoming update after selling too many copies and, presumably, making a huge sum. Great attitude, no? Many would just (and did) run away with the success. Anyway, down I went, and boy was it a right decision. During the next few days I spent a crazy amount of time on it, recruiting citizens, building forts and fighting the Greed. It seems all the more crazy if you consider the fact that the game utilizes only 3 buttons. Even Tetris uses more than 3! In short, it simply ticked all the boxes. Beautiful 2D graphics? Check. Minimalist control? Check. Enough depth for great decision-making and reasonable replay value? Check.

Having beaten the classic version, I was a little shy when the promised update came out - New Lands. Instead of providing all content from the get-go, New Lands breaks it down into a linear progression system, with unlockables along the way to make future replays more varied. In addition, the goal is no more simply destroying the Greed - it became holding them off while trying to set sail to the next island. It bugged me too much, not being able to build an advanced structure until reaching the 3rd Island, for example, and not knowing what'd happen to the islands I left behind, so I dropped the game and moved on.

A few weeks ago, I was looking for a casual game to play with my wife, and decided to try Kingdom: Two Crowns - the sequel to Kingdom that, as the name suggests, allows two people to play co-operatively. Although our session was brief, as the constant time and safety pressure was too much for her (spooky jungles!), the charms of the game again enticed and convinced me to give New Lands another go. With my memory of the classic version too far gone, the pre-conception of how the game should play also disappeared and this time I enjoyed it a lot more. Building a ship and setting sail, I found, add another layer of depth into the game, requiring decisions such as: When should I stop gathering resources and fortifying the castle to start building the boat? Should I wait until clearing the path to start pushing it to the dock, or use the archers positioned on the ship as extra fire-power to destroy the Greed portals blocking the way? I would still love the option of exterminating the Greed from each island for good before leaving, but it's now only a harmless after-thought - I've read that you can actually do so in Two Crowns, and I am looking forward to trying it out. Perhaps in 2024, and only if I find someone to play with.

What I am getting at is that taking some time off can be quite beneficial, and not just to enjoying games - books, hobby, career, you name it. It gives you new perspectives and erodes or, at least, puts away whatever feeling and prejudice that might be obscuring you from seeing true. I am now comtemplating whether it is time to pick up The Banner Saga 2 or not - I completed the first installment exactly one year ago, on the 5th of February 2019, yet my heart is still heavy with the decisions I made and the stories I heard. Perhaps I can wait a bit more.